= Hiridenda

This paper analyzes the way to keep an ontology up-to-date in real time in a food products storage environment, relative to the relational database where the information lives.
First an introduction to the Hiridenda-2020 project, which is being developed by I3B, the Ibermatica Institute for Innovation, belonging to Ibermática S.A., is made in order to put the present work in its context. Moreover, the goals, used methodology and the structure of this paper will be explained
In addition to this, a summary of the current state of the art is made, analyzing the application of new technologies to warehouses, the different uses and goals achieved by using ontologies, specially in the logistics area, ending with the main problem considering different ways of working together with relational databses and ontologies.
As a complementary information some commercial applications, related to some of the analyzed aspects that are being used nowadays, have been studied, in order to show the applicability that the considered matters have in real world.
Following this review, the structure for the considered solution is shown, with a brief explanation of the mechanisms and applications that have been used to solve the given problem, including the created ontology, and showing afterwards the achieved architecture after assembling the different explained pieces. At this point a detailed explanation is given about the implemented application, its use and steps that have to be taken for getting it working. The different database tables and the information they contain are explained in detail as well. There is also information on the results obtained and the new opened working lines which have been opened as a consequence.
Finally the conclusions obtained after doing this project are shown, where the achieved goals are explained, the contributions to the student’s education, and those parts which are considered to not have been developed completely.
